The prophet Muhammad sallallah.aihi
wasallam told us that whoever builds a
mosque for Allah, Allah will build for
him a sim at a house in Jenna. And we
know the great reward that will not only
be gained but rather will fill your
grave after your death. Whenever someone
prays there, whenever someone gives
shahada in the masid, whenever someone
learns something in the masid, yes, that
will be something that you'll have on
your scale.
[Music]
How are you guys doing? And welcome to
another episode of the MH podcast. The
most irregular podcast on the internet.
But we have a very, very consistent
person here with me, a person that you
may know as Aussie MMA, a person who's
trained and trained with some of the
biggest names. And we're going to be
going through some of those names in MMA
today. Aussie, how you doing today?
Thank you so much, my friend. I'm doing
very well. Thank you for having me.
Well, um, thank you for being here,
first of all. And secondly, I mean, we
just finished a seminar which was very
educational. Um, people will know you
from, um, Instagram and some of the
tutorials that you put on Instagram,
some of the breakdowns that you put on
Instagram. And you've developed a system
which seems to be a synthetic system
which amalgamates some of the kind of
like USSR if you like Soviet style
training
for wrestling and grappling and the arts
as well as some of the western ways of
doing it. Is that a correct fair
assessment you think?
Yes 100%. Um you have noticed that very
well. um up to 18 years old I was in
Russia studying training there and when
I have moved in 2008
in United States I was introduced to a
completely new lifestyle to a completely
new um way of thinking about training
about fighting about competing
uh about uh team protocols and what's
not and this was fascinating to me.
What part of Russia were you in for
those who
you were part of the caucuses?
Yes, I come from a state in North
Caucuses called Cabardina Balcarium.
My state is directly above Georgia. We
actually in on a border with Georgia.
It's a very south of Russia.
So how close is it to Dagistan, Cheschna
and stuff like that?
So Dagistan, Cheschna, they are more
east from us. So if we would take a
drive
uh hopefully I'm not I'm not mistaken
but both states could be reached under
six hours I believe and
you've got in your state you've also got
a tradition of martial arts just like
oh yes incredible it's uh all these
states stretching across the north
caucuses mountains
wrestling and combat sports is religious
I believe They there is no boy who grew
up in these lands who haven't
experienced form of wrestling one way or
another
before he became adult. You know some of
the boys yes they became athletes but
uh even those who haven't become
athletes
they all wrestled in one way or another
and it's it's incredible how wrestling
fighting is ingrained in culture.
Listen, don't go too far.
In my small village,
it's it's a small village. It's called
Bakan.
Um,
in the wrestling room of my time,
we already had multiple
international champions, meaning
European championships in wrestling,
world championships in wrestling, youth
and adults, and we had Olympians,
Olympic medalists and champions, all
training under the same roof just in one
village. Amazing.
Just in one village. There are countries
there are countries who can count in one
hand how many medals they have per
country. We had just in one gym
unbelievable
this many international
medals. Therefore this is a true
testament in in the levels
of commitment and the levels of
intensity
of valuing combat sports in that region.
So take us through a a regular training
session that you would do um maybe in
your village when you were a teenager
growing up. What kind of pace would it
be? What kind of intensity would it be?
What kind of instruction would you have?
So uh our training training sessions we
would have over there would be split in
seasons.
Okay.
School season since we were kids we had
to go to school. So we would have school
season sessions. We would have summer
training camps and we would have
pre-ompetition pre-ournament sessions.
Um
and all these sessions they would defer
in certain ways but majority of time
they would maintain core principles.
They would share core principles with
each other.
Um if we talk about the most common
training that we were doing which is
school season training. This is the one
that we would do the most. It was uh
early morning we was to wake up those
who lived closer to the gym was
obligated to show up to the gym and do
runin
either around the gym complex or uh
within the gym. We used to have a
humongous facility. It was uh six
wrestling mats.
When I say wrestling mats is if you
imagine the wrestling circle the full
six of those lined up. So it's it's a
pretty big space. M
so we we would show up we would either
jog around those mats within that
facility or sometimes coach would make
us go outside and run outside of the
building.
Is it a bit like you know the Iranians
have this thing where they have a very
long warm up maybe like an hour. Same
thing with you guys because majority of
them uh they really took a lot of
programs from USSR.
They would come they would study they
would watch. So so many of them uh are
are influenced by the USSR program
because USSR
science they put so much investment into
sports.
Yeah. at that time. And um so yes, we
would do those runin stuff and then we
would do some plyometrics light. We
would do uh some standing wrestling
drills like poming like everything was
done very light
um with a low intensity.
Um then coach would give us a lecture
and we would quickly run back home,
shower, go to school.
Okay.
Yeah. Go to school and finish finish
school. Come home, rest, eat. If
possible, do homework. If you're a bad
boy, go outside, play, get dirty. But
5:30 or 6 PM, everybody sharp in a gym.
In a gym,
so everyone's training twice a day
basically.
Yes. Yes. And not everyone, everyone who
could.
Everyone who could. Um I used to live
very close to the gym, so I was forced
to be there twice per day.
And um
that's it. Evening session
each time is like what? How many hours
each time?
So morning session is hour hour 15
minutes.
Evening session is 2 and 1/2 3 hours.
M
where the first hour if not more is
gymnastics wrestling gymnastics. We
would be doing these the
And what about the rest of the time? Is
it more high intensity
learning? Uh then this is where we get
into
this was my favorite type of training.
This is what I missed in United States
when I moved to United States. They
weren't training like this. We were
doing semilive drilling
where it's not just I did the move, you
did the move, and in between it's a
great zone. We just get up, talk, we
look around. No, no, no. So, for
example, if we're drilling double leg
takedown, so the coach gives us a task.
Okay, boys, we're doing double leg
takedown from a symmetric stance off of
a head snap.
We start the mat. We start he starts he
he blows the whistle. We start the
clock. And um the way how we drill is
not static. One guy just standing there
and letting the the other guy do it. So
the guy who performs the move always one
or two units of intensity above of the
guy who's receiving the move.
So he's letting him work but he's not
stopping him from
Exactly. Exactly. So now as I'm shooting
on you on my drilling partner, if you
see I'm so bad at it, you're not going
to give me a false sense of success and
just fall on your back. You would be
like a you would be letting me know,
hey, this wouldn't work.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's it's just one example. Another
example, as I take you down, you
wouldn't just relax and fall on your
back. you would actually act how you
would move in a real match, but it's
just you would always be one step behind
me.
Does this make sense?
Yeah, makes sense. Yeah.
Then another part, I'm huge on this.
Everybody who has been training with me
lately, they know this very well.
After one completes the takedown, boom,
score happen. We don't just stop and get
up. after the score happens, the moment
score happens, the guy on the bottom now
is performing his defensive wrestle up
into the neutral. So now you kind of
practice in one move, but in reality you
practice in five.
One as a major move and the other ones
are sub moves according of how we fail,
what position we're in, how I grabbed
you, and what's not. So the the drilling
was like a live match with X amount of
resistance in certain area, less amount
resistance in the other areas and a
little bit more resistance in in the
third areas. And you would just keep
going like a you're doing a match. No
talking, no stopping. Your brain, your
body, your mechanics are always in a in
a taste of the battle.
There is no never stopping.
You understand? So majority, not all of
the drills but majority of drills were
done in this format.
Then we would do a lot of positional
live matches.
Mhm.
Meaning we would start either uh
negative and positive position. One is
in a offensive headlock, the other one
is in a defensive coach blows the
whistle. We go for 15 seconds.
No matter where the match takes us, we
stop after the second whistle. We change
the offense and defense. We continue.
Same things on a single leg. Same thing
deep on a double leg. same thing on a
half pin position three. So, a lot of
specific stuff.
A lot of specific. And every Thursday, I
still don't know why it was Thursdays.
Every Thursday evening time, we would
show up. Everybody was supposed to dress
properly how they would dress for a
tournament, meaning proper shoes, proper
singlets, and everything. And every
Thursday evening, we would show up and
uh it would be full freestyle live
matches.
Ah, so it's like one day of proper
sparring.
Yeah. Full live matches. Yeah. for three
hours.
Really? Yeah.
Three hours live matches.
But that was once a week only.
Once a week. Yes. All the other live
matches were were either semi-live
drilling or short live limited matches.
Yeah.
Like a specifically limited to a
principle, to a position, to a score, to
a grip. It is always differs on what the
coach wanted that night.
Yeah. you know, and uh Fridays it was a
play day.
We were we would show up and at the
beginning of the session, depends of the
season, we would either play soccer
outside, it would be a team sports, they
would make us play. Yeah.
That's why we see like Kabib stuff
playing basketball and it's part of the
culture there.
Yeah. Yeah. It's it's part of the
Olympic system. All individual sports
play. All individual sport players were
supposed to play team sports and all the
team sports players were supposed to
play individual sports. Interesting.
Interesting. It's like giving them an
all-rounded experience.
Yes. Yes. Yes. So, every Friday we were
playing either soccer, volleyball, uh
mini soccer, uh uh a mixture of
basketball and rugby.
Yeah.
You know, and we we would play these
games and we would have teams and uh we
would keep scores of the teams like it
was almost like a championship leagues.
Really?
Yeah. We everybody used to look forward
to Fridays. That was our favorite day.
It was a play day.
And um also
u I remember at at one time uh when we
used to go to training camps every
training camp our coach was because
majority of our training camps were done
with the gymnasts and ping pong players
because the the training facility of the
camp was huge. So few different teams
few different disciplines were doing
camp at the same time. So every time
they would force us to play ping pong
with the ping pong players. Yes. Yes.
Ping pong player.
Um okay. When I used to when I used to
train at Jack Swing Academy, I was I was
the champion of the of the academy. Yes.
Because of your former because of the
Yes. Yes.
Yes. I uh when I opened my very first
gym in United States, one of the things
that I did was I invested in a good ping
pong table and I had a ping pong table
in my gym. people go, "What the hell is
this?
Yeah, this is this has to become a real
man. You got to play ping pong."
So, yeah. And and I was able to
uh to pass down the habit to the younger
generation of my students and majority
of my students back in New Jersey when I
used to live there. Till this day, they
play ping pong.
Is there any benefit from a martial arts
perspective?
Oh, 100%. Really?
100%. It's it's humongous. The benefits
are humongous. Then the sad part,
we were never explained
in Russia the benefits of it. They were
just shut up and do it.
And and only when I was uh
was it like hand eye coordination
reaction? Oh my that
it's just it's going to take us the
whole podcast for me to explain but
basically when I was studying appetit
training athletic performance
enhancement training and motor skills
the improvements the modifications that
you can do to the body and what's not
one in the in the top of the list of
healthiest physical activities a person
should do is sports that deals with the
footwork
an object, foreign object in your hand
through which you're supposed to aim and
hit another object which needs to be
sent somewhere else.
Unbelievable.
So that's your tennis,
pingpong, now paddle.
Yeah, everyone's doing that now.
It is incredibly healthy. And while
you're doing all this, so footwork, hand
and eye coordination, foreign object
that needs to become part of you. And
within that foreign object, you have to
hit another object that's not part of
you. So imagine how much connections
needs to happen.
All that under dynamic problems.
Meaning the problem constantly changes.
The the direction of the objects change.
The speed of the object changes.
It's very hard to guess.
Yeah.
Where the ball is going to be next time.
Do you understand what I'm talking
about? So this brings a humongous effect
on a human's brain development
which results in amazing uh reaction,
coordination, sensitivity which results
in lesser injuries, better performance.
Interesting.
Uh easier skill attainment.
They they really looked into this the
Soviets.
Oh, they knew what
Okay. So before we get into some of the
kind of I want to ask you about
basically some of the things that are
being said in the MMA world and get your
expert opinion because there's a lot of
people out there
giving their lay man opinions in the
comments sections and the Twitter and
all that. We want to get some some you
know professional opinions but before we
get to that
I wanted to ask you about the difference
between the training in the west versus
if you like the east or the eastern
block or
Yeah yeah yeah
Russia. Man, there's a lot of
similarities in the terms of core
principles. At the end of the day, you
have to get better, you have to preserve
your health and win the fight. Yeah. You
know, it's it's some core principles are
always the same. Core values are the
same.
Yeah.
Uh obviously
this is not a secret anymore.
The training approaches, the the
philosophies are different. Yes. Um,
another thing when I listen to these
things because I have tasted both.
Yeah. Yeah.
Uh, eastern
not many people have.
Yeah. Yeah. And it's not just I went
somewhere uh I I was sent two three
years to Dagistan and forget I actually
lived in the mountains and and same way
it's not just
I went to United States and I trained in
a few gyms. I lived in United States.
So, so I truly believe
I'm one of very few who are able to
grasp a true taste
of the full spectrum of colors
and taste from both sides.
Yeah. And you seem openminded to
accepting the positives. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I will never be biased about
these things, you know. It's it's uh at
least I'm trying not to be. I'm
consciously trying not to be biased. So
the thing uh the thing is one thing I'm
going to make it clear very clear when
people
uh summarize and all the training under
Russian style and US style there's a
huge margin for error in this one
because not all the Russians train the
same not all the people from the west
train the same
they within the divisions there are
divisions
do you understand what I'm talking about
so in Russia they are different schools
uh they are different philosophies in
United States they are different schools
and different philosophies so it's very
hard to to summarize everything under
one umbrella
this Russian style but let's talk about
majority
sure
okay so we made this clear
uh if somebody's in the comment sections
putting something
you're not generalizing everything yeah
uh right now I'm generalizing and for
them to know
there's sections everywhere.
Yes.
So,
here's what I have noticed
in in Russia. When I was training in
Russia,
so much
training was going around understanding
the philosophy and principles of what I
was doing.
There was long lectures before and after
sessions. Yes.
uh they were forcing us to uh to be
educated. I remember every week we were
showing up with our school report cards
for the coach to see if we're doing good
in school or not. And if we don't do
good in school, coach wouldn't allow us
to wrestle because they knew how much we
love wrestling. So they were using
wrestling
as as a leverage for us to do good in
school.
Meaning they focused a lot on an
intellectual approach. Okay. When I went
to United States and I saw how kids,
high school kids, middle school kids
were trained in wrestling, it was so
much intensity. Go, go, go, go, go.
Non-stop, non-stop.
Oh, it's not like that in Russia. No.
Yeah, it wasn't like that in Russia.
Ah, interesting.
And then, and then also in Russia, we
have schools where it's very similar
where they just tell you, "Shut up and
do it." You're not allowed to ask
questions. They don't explain things.
You just have to do it. And it's a lot
of live matches, live matches, live
matches. And you just keep going. You
keep going. And somehow you learn due to
the high amount of challenge in the
room.
It's not just 10 kids. You have 150, 160
kids on the mats.
Sink or swim.
Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So there are
different approaches. But my in my state
what I've experienced was more
intellectual approach. Understand wise
and house
be able to explain it. That was another
thing they were making us do. They were
forcing us to explain what we believe we
understood
and only then practice
because to be honest teaching and
learning go hand in hand.
Yeah.
And when you teach you're actually in a
sense it's like learning.
Yes. Yes. Big time. Big time.
Um
and that's that was one big difference
that I noticed. Um, another thing that I
noticed from from United States and from
um from Russia was
the coaching attitudes
in Russia when I was training. I'm I'm
sure right now in Olympic sports is the
same, but in MMA it's different. But in
Olympic sports, if you're a coach of
Olympic sport in Russia,
the students weren't paying you
membership fees. you were getting paid
by the government.
Therefore, as a coach now,
I don't worry. Ah, I should be nice to
Muhammad. Even though
he's a trash in training, I shouldn't
yell yell at him too much.
Yeah.
Because I may lose membership money.
Yeah. He's got his own money coming in.
Money is coming in regardless
how many kids I have in a room. As long
as I create champions.
Yeah.
I get paid by champions. Is
it still like that now?
Olympic sports. Yes, I believe. So,
Olympic sports, it's the same. Yes.
you're getting paid. You're getting paid
by the champions you have in a room, not
by the amount of people you have in a
room.
So, what they focused on was the
quality.
If you're not doing well, they don't
care about your feelings. They're not
going to babysit you.
They will turn you inside out to make
the most out of you. And if your maximum
is not enough, you're out of the team.
That's how it was over there. When I
came to United States, I remember first
time when I saw that they were give
given few some coaches were given
leeways to some people who's not
supposed to be fighting. I would be like
this guy will never be able why is he
coming to the gym? Oh no no no he's pay
his membership he should be it was like
to me it was shock because that's when
first time I experienced
in one room people who are hopeless in
the realm of fighting training with the
guys who are killers. That's why you
have people like CM Punk in the UFC.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, so to me,
No, but I heard that because before he,
you know, he he went and and competed, I
was looking at some of the the sparrings
and the trainings and stuff and it looks
like people were just letting him do
what he wants
by by us by us where I come from.
Yeah.
Cabarina Balcaria, you would never see a
guy who's in a wrestling gym without the
intentions of becoming a world champion.
Like the to us it didn't make sense for
somebody to train fighting if they're
not planning to fight.
Yeah. Yeah.
And in United States I would see like
hobbyists basically
hobbyist. And to me it was like how is
this possible? Why is this guy
I used there were times when I used to
get insulted.
I was like why is this guy training in
the same room as me?
He's not a fighter. He doesn't want to
be a fighter.
I don't care if he's a beginner or not.
It's just what would bother me. He he
has kids. He's a father. He shows up to
train in the same room as me. Like at
that time I was a boy, 18 years old boy.
My ego couldn't take it.
To me was an it was an insult.
Yeah.
Yes. I couldn't take it until later my
eyes has opened and I understood the
benefits of what they were doing. I was
like, "Oh my god, this is amazing."
You know, now in Russia, MMA gyms has
opened their doors for hobbyists as
well, for beginners as well. They're
able to come in. Not all the clubs, but
now it's open. Now it's more relaxed.
But back then when I was training, no
way. If you're not planning to be the
best of the best, you're gonna get
eaten. You're gonna get destroyed and
kicked out.
You know, that's how it was. Because
coaches don't care. Didn't care at that
time how many students they had in
class. All what they cared about. They
had champions in class.
Well, I'll tell you where you find a lot
of champions. You find a lot of
champions from your area of the world in
the UFC right now. You've got you've got
people like obviously he relinquished
his title but you got Islam Makf.
Uh now you've got Ilia Tapor from
Georgia which is right around the corner
from you guys as well. USSR
Morab which I think you're in good
communication with a good friend of
yours.
Yes.
Me and Marab were we're good buddies.
Yeah. And and many others um Anv as
well. and live.
Um,
so we were thinking about like maybe
this is the reason why because they've
got it in their cult just ingrained that
something like wrestling or something
that was always part of their
we all I'm looking at that generation my
generation a little bit younger than me
a little bit older than me we all under
the influence of that philosophy of that
school where
where coaches didn't babysit us you know
like they
you either eat or be eating hunt or be
hunted like
it was really a way to survive, you
know, and and certain areas, my area, it
wasn't that bad. For example, in my
area, uh there were kids who didn't need
to fight to survive in life. They could
go to school and stuff, but there are
areas at North Caucuses where fighting
is your only golden ticket.
So, imagine how you're going to fight
now.
Mhm. Well, um I heard Kabib say actually
very similar thing and he was making the
point that at the time Lean Edwards was
the welterweight champion. who was
saying the reason why he made it is
because he had to because he was living
an impoverished lifestyle and stuff.
Even in the UK it's like that.
Exactly.
But let's let me ask you a couple of
questions now which everyone is talking
about. Let's you know seeing in the
comments section and stuff like that.
Ilia Tapora versus Islam Makachev. Who
are you picking for that? If it does
happen, who would you pick?
Oh my god, this is the hardest one to
pick. Really?
Are you kidding me? Yes. Yes. Yes. I
mean if I emotionally detach from
because I trained with Islam uh um
you train with him in AKA.
Yes, we used to me Islamab
some of other guys we used to train yes
DC
uh we have videos training together we
we had a very good time over there. So I
have
firsthand experience.
Yes.
Makes this even better this.
Yes. Yes. Yes. So so I have uh somewhat
of personal connection to Islam. Sure.
Okay. Even though we're not buddies,
we're not hanging out uh together. He
has his lifestyle. I have my lifestyle.
We live in a different places, but still
to a degree I have uh personal uh
connection to Islam. Okay. I have
trained I have sweat with a man in a
gym, you know.
Um
you sparred with him as well. You done?
Of course. We all used to do regular
training together because we're pretty
much in the same we were in the same
lightweight fighters, you know. We're
all
uh being training partners to each
other. M
um
yet Tapora also is u is a fighter from
our regions
pretty much like I said Georgia is my
neighbor if we if we talk about
neighbors Georgia is closer to me than
Dagistan really
yeah of course where my state is right
on the border with Georgia up north
and Dagistan is few states away from us
on our east
from Kabarina Bararia
anyway um Tapuria is another amazing
individual, at least from the media that
I say. I never met him in person, but I
really enjoy listening to his
interviews, watching his demeanor. Uh,
ultra confident.
Yes.
I like the way he was coming out the the
fight. He's basically as if he was going
to a sparring session.
Yeah. Yeah. And and you can and you can
see I mean, as somebody like me and
people who has been in a sport for long
enough, when they watch
someone like Tapora coming out, we can
see this is not
Yeah. This is not fake. This is not
irrational. This is actually rational
confidence
that is
growing
from accumulation of positive past
experiences of his challenges.
That's what rational confidence is.
Yeah. I mean, he's had 17 fights and
before that he's probably had
Come on, son. The way how he moves, the
way how he drops people. And it's not
just in the fights what we see. There is
so much more to him. I heard some people
who trained with him. I spoke to them in
private.
Uh what we see is the tip of the iceberg
of him
because Hamza trained with him and you
trained Hamza, doesn't it, as well?
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Hamza spoke
very highly of him as well. And um and
this guy is is is and for Hamza to speak
highly of somebody because Hamza himself
is a unique beast
o of this industry fighting industry and
for him
to value somebody to speak highly of
somebody it's
he's the real deal basically.
Yes. Yes. Yes. So I believe Ilia is the
real deal
from my educated experience
as well as u observation watching him
facts speak for themselves.
So what do you think? So, Ilia versus
Islam, who would you, if you had to
choose a one of them, who would you
choose
and how how would they win?
Man, uh, I know this may sound um very
boring for our viewers if I say this.
To me, this is one of those super tight
50/50 decisions because they both have
each other's kryptonites.
Really? Yeah.
Yes. They both have each other's
kryptonites.
So, explain that a little bit further.
What do you think? How how so? So if uh
if I look in possible
openings that Ilia has in his game
which could be utilized,
Islam has weapons for it.
If I look into
using the same perspective on Islam,
those openings that could be utilized
are mastered by Ilia.
So give give us some specific examples.
Now maybe Islam Makov's watching this.
Maybe even watching this.
Man, this is this is a long subject to
talk about. It's very specific. But um
what I would uh in a nutshell,
yeah,
they are openings in a standup game of
Islam
during round two, three, four, and five.
M
and they're opening gray zone areas and
Ilia's footwork
from the round one until round five.
I will leave it there.
Okay. Cuz I I heard um Tarukian uh he
was talking to I think might have been
Ariel Hawani or something like that and
it was they were having a back and forth
and he was asking what do you think
would happen? Do you think because he
was the number one contender
and he made an interesting point. Let's
see what you think of it. He said,
"Look, I mean Ilia went up against Bryce
Mitchell." I don't know if you remember
that fight.
Yes, I do. I do.
And actually before I won the fight,
Bryce Mitchell had taken Ilia down,
correct? And actually kept him down for
a little long time. So, and and Bryce
Mitchell, if you look at it, he was
actually a Southpaw fighter as well.
Yes.
So, it seems, okay, well, who's
stronger? This is the argument. And
Surukian's making this argument, who's
stronger, like someone like Serukqian or
a Makachev or a Bryce Mitchell? If Bryce
Mitchell could take him down, if he
could keep him down, if he could
dominate him in that way for a little
bit before he got knocked out, that's a
different issue. But if that's the case,
if he can do it, then you know, Makachev
can do it even even better.
Yes. Yes. That's another hard thing to
do. Measuring fighters by other
fighters. It's very hard. It's very
tricky.
It's not MMA maths.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't work.
MMA math doesn't work. We we've seen
this before.
Um, and another thing, let me just uh
make a quick note.
Bryce Mitchell,
people don't realize how good this kid
is.
He's very good.
Oh my god. People don't realize certain
things he does is a is a master ship.
Is just there's so much distractions
about him people started looking for and
they're forgetting how good this guy is.
He is one of my favorites. really
current fighters out there. Yes.
Yes. There are certain things are
missing. Yes. Unfortunately, certain
losses has happened due to
uh fundamental errors. Okay.
Nevertheless,
the if we look into the elements of how
he puts striking into grappling
sequences, he is one of the best out
there. M
me as a person who analyzes fights
heavily who analyzes MMA wrestling
heavily. He is in my top list of
fighters that I study and analyze in a
specific elements.
Wow. And you're saying he's one of the
best.
One of the best in a way how he puts his
sequences from striking to takedowns.
How he puts the takedowns together.
He's one of the best. Talking about
analyzing fights, um there's been
different, you know, theories as to how
and why Tapora was able to put away
Olivivera in such a way.
And some say, well, actually, it's
Olivivera's mistake that he was, you
know, lunging forward and it was the
forward momentum and that caused that.
And I'll say, no, that was it was just
the way that it was a trap that I put
for him.
I would like you to see because the UFC
have put this up
and we'll do a bit of an analysis.
Please, please, please.
Oh, of it. I'll put on my phone here.
Um, I'll get to the sequence at the end
where the the um where the knockout
takes place.
So, another thing is you see with with
such a high level fighters like
Tapuryam.
Yeah.
Watching the last 10 seconds of the
sequence would be very deceiving because
fighters of his caliber usually take
sometimes a whole round to build one
fundamental attack.
Okay. So when I watched that sequence,
when I watched what happened with Ilia
and Ala,
yeah,
I had some flashbacks from some of my
striking coaches back in New Jersey. How
that combo that he did
Mhm.
was preconditioned
2 minutes before.
Really?
Yes. Everything he has done before that
knockout led him to this. That was the
result
of the work he has done about 2 minutes
or 90 seconds before that knockout
happened.
And that was that's actually one of the
things that John Denaher used to
emphasize on us a lot. Every time he
would give me a name of the fighter to
watch, he would always make sure to
remind me, do not watch the highlights.
watch three minutes before, three moves
before, three rounds before the final
act
because there was that grappling
exchange they had as well. Here we go.
And he tried to put in in a heel hop
position. Failed that.
Here we go. Building it, how they
started the fight, the dynamic that they
started with, how he made him feel.
To be honest, even psychologically, he
Oliver um Charles Oliver didn't look
confident.
Exactly. Exactly. He looked a bit
nervous. Things things went off rhythm.
Mhm.
Things went off rhythm. Really what what
makes a great fighter is the ability to
impose his rhythm, his distance, and his
pace on his opponent. This is what
majority of fans don't see. Fans see the
mechanical parts, the last mechanical
acts, the knockout or submission or some
awesome takedown or some awesome kick.
They don't see the invisible part behind
that. the management of the distance,
the hazardness a fighter makes about
himself,
the feeling
that he forces his opponent to take.
Would you say that you could summarize
all this into the psychological
component?
It's not just psychological. It's it's a
it's a physiological. how you move, how
you stand, uh certain things you do, a
body language, shoulder twitch, you you
make a little little skips forward,
little skips backward because you're
creating
enormous amount of information that is
throwing at your opponent to be
analyzed.
Now, your opponent is analyzing every
single muscle tweak you make during your
fight. He's watching. He's either
analyzing it consciously or
subconsciously. So what happen is when
you move in certain way, when you do
certain techniques, for example, you
shot, he defended. Now next time, how
you going to use the shot? Because now
that shot is in his head or you throw a
kick right into his forearms. Outside
people look at it. Oh, he missed the
kick. But
that hurts.
That hurts. And that leaves a mark
to a degree in every fighter's head.
Will you utilize on that mark? M.
Does this make sense?
There is just so much to what the naked
eye can see.
Yeah.
That's why often
the intangibles.
Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
It's it's just it's just so much. So
watching Aloe Vera versus um Ilia
Mhm.
to me was fascinating because at least I
assumed
from from the past experience that I
have. I assumed that Ilia beautifully
built that knockout within the last 90
seconds to two minutes uh pre-order that
act.
Mhm. It seems like he done the same
thing with Holloway as well.
It's like he knew that that was going to
happen. Yeah. He's just with Hollow, it
took a little bit longer time, but the
cooking was there.
The cooking was there. He seasoned him
well.
He he did certain temperatures here,
certain temperatures there,
flipped him one side, flipped him the
other side, and then when he was ready,
the strike came.
No one in the lightweight division will
cause him a problem. Or do you reckon
Tukruian will cause him an issue?
Uh, that's another thing. Everybody in a
top 15, even top 20 are potential havoc.
Patty,
you never know. Maybe his chaos can help
him.
Really?
Yeah. Yeah. It's it's you can one thing
I learned about MMA, you cannot count
anybody out.
Yeah. Yeah.
You cannot count anybody out. It's the
sport is so unpredictable. And the thing
is which Ilia is going to show up that
night.
Mhm.
That's what we forget. Perfect example,
Cowboy Cerrone.
Mhm. When I was training with Cowboy
Cerrone, never in my life out of
everybody who I have trained with, I'm
saying this with a f with a with a 100%
confidence and with the factual data. I
have trained with a worldclass athletes
throughout my career.
Yeah.
The best of the best, the legends.
GSP.
Thank you.
You actually trained Hamzad, isn't it?
Yes. Yes. Yes.
Have you trained with Jon Jones?
Of course. Me and John Jones, we used to
spar together. Even though he was so
much bigger than me, he would adjust his
levels. We used to grapple with him.
If I start calling names, it's just
it's basically everyone.
I I open my phone, I start showing you
the photos, you like, how is this
possible? You two saw each other. You
No, you were showing me the I mean, I
was looking at the Dylan Dennis uh
we'll come to that because people don't
he learned Russian wrestling from me.
Well,
humiliating.
Yes. Yes.
Yes. Before the Paul brothers and all
that. Right. So out of everyone that I
have ever experienced,
yeah,
training with Cowboy Serrone was the
toughest training partner was the most
versatile, slick,
dangerous sparring partner I have ever
experienced. If that cerone showed up
every fight,
Yeah.
I don't think anybody ever would stand.
So what is it then? Why is why has he
got so many losses on his record? It's
just which Donald will show up.
Even if you listen to to commentators,
some fights, they mention this uh often
they said which Connor, which cowboy
would show up. We never know which one
will.
So that must be another psychological
thing like
you see how he is on the way.
So that's why it's so hard to predict
fighters because right at that time if
you ask me
who's the best lightweight in the world,
I would say Kaberi.
Really?
Yeah. And at that time I used to train
with so many lightweights.
guys from Dagistan, guys from Europe,
guys from United States. So many
lightweights.
Nobody made me feel what cowboy was
making me feel in training.
But then cowboy would show up to the
fights. He either shows up as the best
untouchable guy or he shows up and just
things don't go his way.
He's just with Connor for example.
He seemed out of it to be honest.
You see, that's what I'm talking about.
that fight I was 99% sure cowboy would
kill Connor.
I was shocked.
I was shocked you know because I was
calculating things off of cowboy who I
know in training.
Yeah.
So this is the thing now which Ilia is
going to show up which Islam is going to
show up
which patty
you see. Yeah.
So so that's another factor that many we
need to we need to take to
consideration. Therefore, after that, I
realized do not ever count anybody out
and do not value anybody too high.
Well, I mean, you trained Hamza Chimayv.
He's got a big fight coming up himself.
Yes.
Against DDP. Um I think there was some
fake news that came out online saying
that you
switched and now you're something you're
training DDP now. I remember when that
came out uh some of my friends uh
insulin start reaching out to me so mad
uh saying how could they say this about
you and uh one of my very close friends
from United States he me say yo
congratulations they're saying lies
about you that means you're famous now
he's like if they take time to to speak
lies about you you're famous now you
know
and uh it was um to me what bothered me
was wasn't the fact that they said I'm
training uh DDP like okay say it doesn't
matter because one we were together at
the zoo
who you and DDP
yes yes the the the man the man who
invited us
what country was
in UAE he came to UAE
I believe he came to buy some property
over there and he came with his coaches
so he doesn't miss training so now he's
with his coaches
and you think I'm going to go in there
and train DDP you know what I mean
anyway we are invited by a very good
friend of mine he's a local he's the
owner of their zoom.
He he invited him. He invited me. We met
each other. And by the way, we knew each
other from back in United States when I
used to take my fighters to UFC. He
would be there. We would meet each other
after the fights. So it was a good time
to spend.
So now they posted a video where we are
in a zoo and saying we were training
together. I'm like
because it makes you look like you're
worms.
Yeah. It's like, you know, you're going
and maybe sharing all the secrets or
something like that, you know.
So it's it's it's very very very odd.
But what bothered me was the context
that they added in a in a comment
section
saying, "Oh, he has a history of doing
this before." And I was like,
"What history?
Who I have ever in my life
trained?" And then left.
Was it just one account that was doing
just one guy?
Yeah. Yeah. I'm like first time ever,
not even training. is just we met at the
zoo
and like they brought this subject one
time but and then in the comment section
they put in this and moving from gym to
gym getting kicked out from the gyms I
was like oh my god find me one gym that
I got kicked out of I said find me I
have trained athletes in several gyms in
UAE
um I have trained people in TK I trained
Hamza at TK
oh um Tom Khan's
yes yes I trained Hamza over there I
trained Hamza in Abu Dhabi I trained
Hamza at which was
a fight against Kamar Usman.
Okay.
Yes. Yes. Yes. So I have trained him at
TK
and I was supposed to stay at TK and I
trained another fighter at TK.
Uh
and they were asking me to stay and be
the head coach of the place. I was
actually
announced as a head coach of the TK as
the Yes. Yes. This is all this is me not
me coming up with a
public knowledge.
It's a public knowledge. It was they put
on their own social media.
However, um after Hamzad's fight, I was
supposed to get paid get paid by one of
their fighters and um
the guys just disappeared. They didn't
they didn't want to pay. So,
they didn't want to pay money and they
wanted me to to be a head coach. So, I
just said no.
It just didn't make any sense.
Uh
and me getting kicked out from somebody
or this is all written knowledge. This
is I can pull up my phone. Everything is
official. So
I was bothe I was like
how far you have to go
with your integrity and your honor to
create such a lie just for the likes.
Yeah. Yeah.
You understand what I'm talking about?
Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.
And and and um yeah I trained in several
gyms and
but you had left a comment underneath
and say you know and people
Yeah. supporting it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I had to I had to
something to to clarify something and
and u
because because
things like this they create negative
energy.
Yeah, they do.
Okay.
Does it bother me? No, it doesn't.
However,
uh the I did it for the people who had
the rights to know the truth.
Yeah, of course.
Does this make sense? It wasn't for me.
It was more for students as well.
Exactly. Exactly. They know that you're
not going to go to their opponents.
Yes. Yes. And and me and Hamza we spoke
after this post uh me and Hamza we spoke
uh we exchanged a few messages and he
was like a coach. He's like he's such a
cool guy about this. He's like coach
even if you did train him he's like the
what these people don't understand even
if you did train him it is your absolute
right because you're a coach.
You understand? He's like that's really
powerful.
Yeah. He's like
but it also shows the confidence he has.
Exactly.
And think and think about it. Just think
about it. A man comes to me to train
with me one week. You think in one week
somebody's going to get so good that
he's going to learn all the secrets of
the other guy and beat him. What secrets
I can share to him about
But we know what we know what is going
to do anyway.
Imagine somebody comes to me. I'm like,
my friends,
I can tell DDP what he's going to do.
I know what he's going to do. But what
is it? He's going to wrestle you. But
don't tell anybody. No way.
He's going to double leg. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. He's going to double leg. I
promise you this. they would be like,
"Thank you, Azie. Now we know. Now we
know." So, so it was it was a silly
thing uh to read, but um hey, thank God.
Thank God. That means my name is getting
out there. That means
uh social media outlets, they are
interested in using my name to get
likes.
Very good. Let them.
Alhamdulillah.
Let them alhamdulillah.
I'm confident in what I'm doing. I'm
confident in my intentions behind my
actions.
And I always say if your intentions are
right, no matter where your path takes
you, you'll be victorious at the end.
Yeah. Absolutely.
One way or another.
Well, that's what the prophet Muhammad
told us as well.
Yeah. You know, every all actions are
based on intentions.
That's of course.
Yeah. But on this, let me ask you this
now because how do you think a showdown
with and DDP will go?
Okay. M
this one now depends
man. Actually it's tough for me to talk
about this because I may actually now
for real give out some information
because if I talk about this it's it's
like uh I may I may have to speak in
details and if I do say details I may
have to say details that
without without giving away any details.
Yeah. Yeah. Is he is he the most
difficult challenge for
Hamza? Listen, I think I think the
unpredictability of Draus is very
dangerous for Hamza.
Yeah.
And what Hamza has is very dangerous for
anybody.
Yeah. Yeah. Of course.
For anybody.
I have never trained anybody like Hamza
really.
This guy,
he is not human. He is something else.
Everyone that sees him in the wrestling
room says he's so tenacious, so
relentless, and so persistent.
It's it's he I fell in love with his
energy. How
he's a beast.
He's a beast. And and how casual he's
about it. It's It's incredible. Shows
up,
comes in not even once. I mean, there
were a few sessions.
What What did you see? What did you
witness in your in the training sessions
with him? What what stand out things did
you witness with him?
That's what stand out. It's his It's his
mentality. It's his perspective. is his
killing instinct.
um his discipline
they were out of three months that I
have trained him maybe one or two times
he was late for a session
okay due to traffic or some unexpected
things but every session he was there 30
40 minutes before stretching preparing
for a session after the session is
finished he's the last one to leave
because doing his cool off doing his
stretching uh talking with the coaches
going over things calling himself so
He's got a very strong work ethic then.
Oh, humongous.
One of the biggest I have ever seen.
Him. Him and Khabib are two lunatics in
a gym that I have ever witnessed. Yes.
Kabib like that as well then.
Yeah. Khabib is like that too. Crazy.
Crazy.
And Islam.
I mean Islam Mahachev was under the
guidance of Khabib's uh leadership when
we were training over there. Khabib was
uh to my perspective at that time was
form of a captain of the team. So
everybody just followed the energy.
Yeah. Everybody Everybody did the same.
And in mostly you'd see this energy
happening in in live rounds or is it in
drilling or all the above?
Every single aspect of the training
really.
Yes. Yes. And that's how it has to be.
If you're planning to be the best at
martial arts, you have to be the best
and how you show up to practice, how you
leave practice, what you do after.
That's what's called integrity.
Yeah. Yeah.
What do you do when the cameras are not
on you? M
what do you do when social media is not
commenting on you?
What do you do when you're alone and you
have a chance or a choice not to give
100% or to give 100%. Do you still give
it?
Mhm.
That's what integrity is. And and if we
look across all the spectrums of
professions,
those who truly achieve greatness are
those with high amount of integrity.
Yes. So they do have it. So, Drius, I
mean, he he looks like a heavyweight to
be honest. He's big, he's very strong.
And one thing that comes across with him
is that he's got a very strong
willpower.
Oh, yeah. When uh when we met before in
United States, I remember like when we
were talking about fights and stuff like
that, I loved his mentality. He's got
he's got a line mentality.
That's why he's a champion.
Yeah, that's right.
You know, it's hard. Look at how many
times he was counted out
and look what he has done. How many
times people are saying, "Oh, that's a
this fight he's going to lose." Boom, he
makes it.
Another fight. Oh, this one for sure
he's going to lose it. Boom, he makes
it. It's like
he has that it factor.
He does. Yeah.
You understand? So now this is going to
be fascinating to see him versus another
guy who has it too.
Well, I mean, people are talking about
now, we know what, like you said, KA's
going to do. He's going to wrestle. He's
going to go for the double leg. Maybe
he's going to try and maybe choke him
out or something like that. But the
question people are putting or the the
area of concern is the cardiovascular
thing because we've seen him slow down.
They say well we've seen Kamzar slow
down and the problem is well Drius
actually is very good in that aspect.
His cardio is phenomenal.
This is what I'm saying. Yeah.
So what do you what do you make of that?
Is that a real concern?
And um I do not know because Hamza in
the training room is just a cardio
machine.
Okay. the amount of training he's able
to perform, the amount of energy he's
able to output out there, it's
incredible. Um,
him we I at least to me is still a
mystery
why he may get tired in the later
rounds. I still don't know after seeing
him in training. Now, I'm confused. I
don't know what it could be.
Adrenaline dump. God knows. God knows
what it is. Maybe he chooses to slow
down and fight like that. It's it's
really
probably only him who can answer this
one.
Okay. But one thing is for sure in a
training room
he is an unstoppable machine.
Unstoppable machine.
Yeah. He's
so it's within his mental capacity to do
this.
Oh yeah 100%.
So you think a lot of it is psychologist
psychology psychological?
Yeah. We don't know until he speaks of
it.
Mhm.
We cannot say it until he speaks of it.
It's very hard to
a lot of people do like they have sports
psychologists and stuff like that.
What do you think of that in terms of
fighters having sports psychologists to
help them overcome some of these
inhibitions and stuff?
Listen, I personally come from from a
background where we would be ridicled if
we said I need a I need a
if I said I need a shrink, they would
shoot me in the head, you know, like I
it would be impossible. So uh I come
from the background where um
let me let me put it this way. I don't
talk uh on my social media about
religion. Okay,
but since we're talking about this one
I'm in a in a good company to speak
about this people hear it but
um where I come from
how we manage stress is through our
religion.
This is very powerful. Islam is our
psychiatrist. Islam is our mentor. Islam
is our whip. Islam is our kendi. Islam
is our strength and weakness. Islam is
our guide and confinement when we need
it.
Mashallah.
Okay. So
what's the shrink is going to tell me
that Islam doesn't tell me?
It's true.
You know like that's how I see. I may be
wrong. Okay. I may be wrong. I one of
the reasons I don't like to talk on my
page about religion and politics due to
my realization that I don't know nothing
about anything
of religion.
That's why I'm shy to speak about it.
But this I can say for sure.
What's the shrink is going to tell me
that my prophet going to tell me? M
and as a fighter when you were fighting
how much did religion factor in right
before your fights when you're coming in
the anxiety controlling that
everyone gets nerves before they get
into
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
One powerful thing one single power
powerful thing that religion my religion
gave me
from my fights was not to care about the
outcome.
Subhan Allah.
It is not mine. Yeah. It is not mine.
What's mine is preparation. What's mine
is faith, belief, intentions, actions,
those are mine.
Present moment is mine. Future is not
mine. Future is in Allah's hands. I'm a
prisoner between two breaths. I don't
know when the last one is inhale and the
last one is exhale.
Subhan Allah.
So this gave me that specific factor
gave me power in my
challenges. I don't even want to use
word fighting because it's too limited
to say just fighting because I use this
mentality in every endeavor that I was
faced with
business, relationships, friendships,
uh health problems, I left the outcome
in Allah's hands.
Do you think being a fighter and going
through a process like that helped you
with things like relationships and
Oh, 100% 100%.
They make you more tough in those areas.
Of course. Of course. It I wouldn't want
to say word tough. I would say word
resilient.
Mhm.
Resilient. You know tough tough is can
be tricky word.
Tough can be tricky definition but being
resilient 100%.
What saved my life on a daily basis when
I moved to United States and there were
times when I lived on the streets. There
were times when I left a place where I
was living and I was literally on the
streets looking like this and smiling.
Allah wait I don't even know where I'm
going to sleep tonight like I have no
place to stay anymore.
I remember those times. What helped me
to push through was uh
the weak belief that I had in my God,
the weak Islam that I had in me that
saved me. And imagine a man
with a stronger belief, stronger faith.
As stronger your faith, stronger you
climb. As stronger your faith, bigger
enemies you get. However, your
resilience rises too,
you know. So, so yeah, 100% faith faith
helps a lot. That's why I believe so
many MMA practitioners that are faithful
spiritual people,
you know, majority of them they are.
Yeah. I mean, I was if you look at the
history of UFC champions,
majority of them are either Christian or
Muslim.
Yeah. you know, so it's
clearly religion has had an impact on
their
100% 100%. Yeah. It's it's u religion is
such a powerful and pure
um essence of life,
faith, faith, spirituality. If it is I
see I view it as a sword.
You can use the sword to save a life or
you can use the sword to take the life.
Okay.
The faith, the religion comes to me in
my perspective. One of the perspectives
you can use for religion is comes as a
sword. How will you wield it?
Mhm.
Okay. Will you wield it for evil or will
you wield it for good?
So it helps. It helps especially at such
a primal activity as combat.
Faith is the last part that's left in
your heart. Not your Mercedes at home,
not your friends, not your coach, not
your great training partners, your
facility. None of it is with you in a
cage except of the rational confidence,
the mechanical and intellectual skill
set of the arsenal
which is all facilitated by your faith.
Because your faith gives you resilience,
your faith gives you willpower.
Mhm. You were you were explaining in the
seminar actually uh which I find quite
fascinating and I think GSP has a
similar thing but it's not like the one
that you have. Um and you had this kind
of like a a system was almost like a
hierarchy of um different things.
Yes.
And at the bottom of it you had like
spirituality which is the most essential
thing you said for a fighter.
So I have this thing um
um I call it a pyramid of a perfect
fighter.
Okay. And I did it with five layers.
Sure. The very first foundational layer
carries the highest amount of importance
in the pyramid because that's what
carries the rest of the layers,
the rest of the pyramid. And that very
first layer in my pyramid, as everybody
who has trained with me extended amount
of time, they know because I'm speaking
of this once in a while in my regular
classes. The very first layer is a
willpower. It's your
it's your spirituality. It's your faith.
It's your belief. It's your resilience,
your integrity, your discipline, your
will to do something
with such a investment where
the the tough the the very rough truth
where when you're stepping in a cage,
it's not just you ready to die,
you want to die for what you do.
Wow. If you go tonight in the cage, if
this is it, tonight is the night you're
happy going tonight to the other side of
life doing this activity. That's what
separates the greatest from the average.
You know, I I read a couple of books on
willpower and I found it very powerful
and useful. One of them was from a very
very accomplished psychologist called
Roy Roy Balmeister and the book is
called Willpower. actually it's easy for
people to remember but he had all these
experiments that he done um and
basically from my understanding there
are two takeaway points in that book he
he actually done experiments in a
laboratory he done like a very famous
radish it's called radish experiment um
one of those things is that he says
willpower is finite it's not infinite no
one has infinite
but he says it can grow like a muscle
100 yes yes it is it is scientifically
proven
it is scientifically proven
Willpower is a chemical reaction in your
brain
which can be triggered which can be
trained and modified 100%.
And the interesting thing of the
willpower,
you lose it if you not use it.
Yeah, that's that basically that's
incredible
supports that that book.
Incredible. Incredible. Yes. You'll lose
it if you not use it.
Another book that I um came across and I
read and I finished and it's really good
actually. I think it's called the power
of self-discipline
and it's by Peter Holland.
Okay,
once again he talks about willpower. He
cites all these kind of things but
it's I think this element of things for
for an athlete sometimes is overlooked
and that's why I liked when you
mentioned this cuz I was like this is
really in line with the modern most
modern psychological investigations.
Correct. Correct.
You know so you say willpower is at the
bottom. It's it's the number one thing
and what informs willpower faith in
these spirituality will inform it at a
stronger way.
So many uh so many people have different
sources of willpower. Sure. Okay.
Different perspectives, different uh
different reasons.
Some people do it for their country,
some people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's
there's many different reasons why
uh a given
uh in given situation man may have such
a strong resilience and willpower to do
specific activity. Okay.
But to my perspective,
through my analysis, through my
experience,
I truly believe and a I'm a big advocate
that
in general the biggest willpower in life
to live
in this short period of time that we
have on this planet uh the biggest
source of willpower is faith and oneness
of God.
Well, I think that there is some
evidence of this now. I mean, um I
mentioned this a few times before on the
on the show or in different contexts
that there was a study that was done in
Germany. Um and this I think it was in
2018, so it's quite recent. And one of
the people that were that done the study
is a woman called Laura Tobin, and there
was a few others as well. And they were
asking about life satisfaction.
Mhm. And what the study concluded was
that the people who had the highest life
satisfaction were Muslims. And this is
the reason why is because of oneness
beliefs.
Yes. Yes.
And when I spoke to Jordan Peterson
about this, obviously like you know he's
got some political views which are very
negative and all that.
But he's still a psychologist and he's
still written like maybe 300 different
peer-reviewed articles and stuff like
that. So when I mentioned this to him
and this is online as well. I spoke to
him. I said to him, we believe that, you
know, to ground yourself, there's no
better and stronger way to ground
yourself except through believing in one
God. That's why it's mentioned in the
Quran, you know,
that you know, only the remembrance of
God to find hearts find rest, etc. And
he said that the reason why that's the
case is because when people have
scattered focus, he said the focus is
multiplicitus. When you believe in one
thing, it reduces anxiety. It gives you
a focus focal point. So I do think
there's something to be said about you
know when someone says okay well my my
motivation is my child or my motivation
is my country it's not as strong as
saying something is transcendental
something which is like one god it's
it's way more power to anchor the
individual if they want to do something
as extreme let's be honest and brutal
let's let's be honest you could even
argue it's one of the hardest sports in
the world it makes martial arts
Oh no no no there's there's no arguing
this it it is it is the most demanding
sport
it's not just hard. Uh again, word hard
would be too limited,
too confined to be used to express MMA.
MMA, it's the most demanding
sport in the terms of diversity of the
criteria.
Yeah.
To have in order to perform
the sport at the high levels
because you need to have to grapple, you
need to go get up, you strike, you need
to all this kicking and punching and
everything. I'm I'm 36 years old. My
very first competition I did when I was
six years old. 30 years ago. My very
first competition. Therefore, that means
I don't even remember when I started
training martial arts.
Okay.
Till this day,
I'm learning about martial arts and I
feel like I'm not going to have enough
of lifetime. Even if I live up to 100
years of age, I'm not going to have
enough lifetime to grasp everything.
It's just not enough time to learn
everything. It's incred it's vast ocean.
And another on top of that, another
challenge of it,
every year it evolves.
Yeah, it's incredible. Especially BJJ
itself.
Every year something is modified,
something is added, something that is
forgotten is brought back, maybe even
already modified. You understand what
I'm talking about? And and as a coach,
that's why I'm saying when the other day
somebody uh we were sitting and uh one
of my family members have asked me like
we know you're the best coach to us.
Even if you weren't the best coach,
we're family.
To us, you are the best. How about you
tell me honestly
what makes you better than the other
ones? What do you think? Be honest with
yourself. And very first thing that came
into my mind because I'm not on a camera
or anything. I can speak to my family
openly and they know I'm unbiased on
these things like I don't need there is
no need for me to show off or lie to
them you know.
Uh very first thing that came to my mind
I said I believe because I constantly
challenge my yesterday's knowledge.
I'm constantly trying to make it better
because the moment I stop the moment I
say oh I'm a good coach that's it. Hey
everybody, study my system and I just
make my system static.
How a static system
can win against dynamic problems.
See, that's a good way of putting it.
Yeah.
Does this make sense?
Yeah, absolutely.
If MMA was a was a static problem, uh I
would have static system.
I mean, even in chess where you've got a
limited number of pieces on the board,
you've got a limited number of moves. I
mean you've got a limited number but
it's almost an number of moves you can
make. Correct.
You know
even in that you need an evolution.
Yes.
It's completely you know people are
moving it differently now.
How come we have every new grandmaster
every
Exactly. Yeah.
You know every some generation one beats
the other one. One beats the other one.
You know you
it's incredible. Now imagine chess where
where it's your body involved where
intellect is involved not just in one
dimension of moving static objects. Now
now the objects that you have to move
are changing it varies from fight to
fight.
Mhm.
Every new opponent is in every time new
project.
You understand? It's like the amount of
variables involved in doing MMA is just
enormous.
Yeah.
Enormous. Therefore, that's what I told
myself. I said, I believe if I had to
guess and if I had to make a statement,
hey, I'm better coach than the other
guy. And somebody said, prove it. The
very first thing I would say, well, I'm
trying to make myself better every day.
Same when I was a fighter. I didn't stop
doing that.
Which I have noticed
majority of coaches, I'm not talking
about great coaches out there. There are
so many great coaches out there. I'm
talking about the majority, the very sad
majority. And I will say why this like
this also in MMA,
the very sad majority of coaches, they
accumulate an X amount of knowledge. I'm
sorry. I apologize. Not knowledge,
information.
You've demoted it.
Yes. Yes. Yes. I had to I had to correct
myself. Not Not even knowledge.
A data. X amount of data.
And what they do is
Yeah. They use the data. So the data
just cycles through them
and when they realize okay all the data
that I have cycled through me has
finished let me go quickly accumulate
new data again they just load themselves
with the new data and they should so it
never turns into knowledge and knowledge
never brings them to wisdom. M but when
you study when you're trying to
challenge the data that you are uh
consumed analyze the data go through
empirical testing through that data.
Yeah.
Then he turns you to knowledge.
And then within that knowledge you gain
wisdom.
I mean even in um androgy and pedagogy
like this the science of learning and
teaching they have something called
Bloom's taxonomy.
And the Bloom's taxonomy is once again
it's like one of those triangular
things. At the bottom of it you have
like knowledge or something like that
but the the top of it you have
assessment you have an analysis. Yes.
So and that's why like in in the in the
UK and I think across the west the
education system is that you're put in
like an examination for kids that are
under the age of 14 usually or 13
questions that are mostly descriptive.
Describe this or tell us this whatever.
when you get to 15 or 16, they'll start
asking you to analyze and evaluate.
Wow. So true. So true.
Yeah. So, it's the same thing. And this
is why, you know, I find your your
system very fascinating because it it
kind of it brings in all of these
andological systems, all these new age,
this kind of cutting edge um
psychological systems. And it's you're
you're bringing that like something
someone will study if you're doing
mathematics or something. True.
You're bringing that into the that
scientific approach to fighting.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I believe we have
to without that we're not going to go
for if we look into sports who had
drastic
thrust
of of skill set level of the top
athletes drastic leap forward of uh
productiveness of their actions of their
games and improvements in the games.
They all
were at the moment where they noticed,
wait a minute, let's apply some science
to this and see what happens. Soccer,
they applied science, game has changed.
Hockey, they applied science, the game
has changed. Gymnastics, weightlifting.
Um,
baseball.
Mhm.
When when they added the algorithm to
baseball, what started happening? M
they just changed the game.
I mean I was before we started I was
telling you about the book I read uh
GSP's book of the way of the fight.
Yes. We were talking outside.
Yes.
Yeah. And actually to be honest I mean I
think tell me if I'm wrong here but what
differentiated GSP from a lot of his
predecessors is that he took this
scientific approach or this athletic he
looked at MMA as a sport rather than as
some kind of an activity or we're going
to fight in the in the cage.
No way. No way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This
is your job. This is your profession.
That's why you remember at the seminar I
told these youngsters I said
lads like you training one and a half
hour in the morning and one and a half
hour at night and in between just being
regular guys you you just cutting
yourself out from success big time now
you're playing lottery ticket
you understand
so what should they be doing in in the
middle should they be looking at the
theoretical
I've been saying this the longest time
and just yesterday I have sent a video
to one of my students who heard this
from me a million times and I sent it to
musical coach. This is exactly what
you've been talking about. Over 70% of
your awakened time must be directly
dedicated to the craft that you're
playing planning to become a master of.
That's it. If I
So it could be that could be like
looking at videos online. That could be
looking at your own footage. That could
be looking at the footage of your
opponent. Everything everything with
analytic
mindset
where you're looking analyzing looking
consuming looking giving looking trying
hearing testing smelling
consuming uh recovery
even teaching maybe
yes
would you put that in there as well
100% 100% but everything just has to be
done in a
proper proportions Yeah,
your recovery time. What do you do? What
do you do
when you're eating? How do you eat?
Let me ask you about that. Actually,
this is this is worth a question because
a lot of people now go to dietitians and
nutritionists.
Yeah.
Do you you know you're speaking about
the importance of having one person that
deals with everything?
Do you suggest eating programs for your
for your students or
Yes. Yes. Yes. I suggest a way of
eating.
So, what is that way of eating? What
would you suggest?
One number one thing is fasting.
Really?
Yes. All human beings should fast. Must
fast.
How many times would you say?
Uh I personally fast 5 days per week.
Really?
Yes.
Well, you talk about intermittent
fasting.
Yes. I'm talking about intermittent
fasting uh whenever I can. How many
hours do uh fasting?
Intermittent fasting.
If I don't try, I reached the level
where if I don't try, I'm fasting 18 20
hours.
Really? If I try, I go up to 23, 24
hours sometimes. Uh, and
that's just water and coffee or
something.
Yeah. Water, coffee, tea, and salt. I
take salt.
Mhm.
Uh, my biggest fast I did 58 hours.
Yeah. I did 58 hours. I've done several
times 36 hours. I have done several
times 42 hours.
What does it What does it do for you?
Oh, my friend, don't let me start on
this one. This is such a common
knowledge. If you Google what does the
fast do to you and one of my favorites
for people to Google, I support this
guy's videos a lot. Dr. Berg.
Oh, Eric Berg. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of
course.
Dr. Eric Berg. Watch his lectures on
fasting. It's
he's a big proponent of ketogenic diet
as well.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, what I do
what I do is I basically tell fighters
fast. Have the closest eating habits to
a keto diet. really
closest but not for I'm not a believer
in a full keto. Do you know why?
Why?
Because everything I do
again I don't want people to think I'm
promoting Islam or making myself look
like I'm religious guy. I I am not. I'm
a I'm a dirty piece of
I'm a I'm I'm a lazy good forno person
who's just trying to be good. That's it.
So please, I hope anybody who listens to
this, do not think I'm making myself
this big uh
holier than thou
Islamic gun. No, no, I'm nobody. I'm
worse than you, whoever's listening to
this. Trust me. So
nevertheless,
the truth is the truth. The fact is the
fact is H.
Yeah. And when I look at systems, when I
look at life laws, protocols, eating,
sleeping, relationship, my guide book is
Islam.
So I go ask my religion, what does it
think of fasting? It says it's great.
It's great.
I ask religion, what does it think of
keto diet?
It says it's good. But Allah subhana wa
ta'ala valued honey so much.
Mhm.
How come now keto says no no no honey
honey is no good for you and Allah
subhana wa ta told me honey is great for
you
here where there comes the controversion
the prophet used to eat a bit of bread
as well thank you
and and dates
thank you so now you're talking about
this is no good that's no good you know
so that's why I say semi keto
certain things
so low carb low carb diet
yes yes very low carb diet and when I
say low carb unfortunately we live in
the times where even barley is healthy
for us. It's one of the suna foods if we
think about it. Okay,
unfortunately barley and wheat products
right now are so genetically modified
across the world. To find a real bread
these days, it's one of the hardest
things to do. But what we can do is we
can try the closest to the real bread.
For example, if you're eating bread, try
to eat on organic wheat as well as no
yeast. Yeast is a number one evil for us
with sugar. Sugar and yeast are two
demons. A cousins of alcohol.
A cousins of alcohol. That's it. And
alcohol is the door to the house of
sins, to the house of destruction of
your soul, your mind, and your body. It
attacks all three.
Mhm.
It's one substance
on a planet. It's one substance on a
planet.
Yeah.
That successfully and productively
destroys all three aspects of our
existence. Spiritual, intellectual, and
physical.
That's that's really good advice. But
what about I'll be honest, sometimes
when you're like training a lot,
you feel really drained and really
tired.
And some have said, you know, there is a
there is a real space for car
carbohydrates before the training.
Yeah, that's why I say semi keto. You
have to have some form of healthy carbs,
you know, find.
So you said the bread. What else would
you suggest?
Buckwheat. Buckwheat was my number one
until now is my number one carb. If you
do enough research, buckwheat is is one
of the kings of carbs.
It is so nutritionally densed is the so
much amount of minerals and healthy
amino acids that is the closest that
gets to meat protein,
the amount of protein it has, the amount
of vitamins it has. It's incredible.
It's this is common knowledge. They
don't have to just believe me. They can
go Google it, do fundamental research
and they will be fascinated on how great
wheat is.
Dates there is no day that passes that I
don't eat dates really.
Yes. Yes. May Allah forgive me. Since I
came to UK, I haven't eaten dates so
far. But when I'm at home
when I'm at home,
dates is a must in our house. Honey and
dates. They
since how many years? Honey, dates and
milk is a must thing in my
Do you have that in the morning? Do you
have that?
Depends if I'm not fasting.
Yeah.
Yeah. But when I'm fasting, when I break
fast, it's always either honey or dates.
So, what give give us a breakdown cuz
this is I think an area where a lot of
people struggle. What looks like a good
let's say three or four meals like
breakfast, lunch, dinner, supper. What
for a fighter, for an athlete or for
anybody just watching at home wants to
be healthy?
Heaven three meals is already no good
for you.
So, how would you say two?
Yeah. Yeah. If you're if you're athlete
in a fighting season, maybe two it would
be the most. Okay. If you're if you're
off, for example, me, I have a hard time
having two meals. Like, I hate having
two meals per day.
I'm usually a guy who if if I really
tempted to break break my fast, I'll
have snacks.
What kind of snack?
I'll have some shake, some some uh amino
acids shake. By the way, I don't drink
whey protein. I'm against that. Yes.
Yes. Yes. Yes. If you do your research
and see what's the whey protein is,
you'll be shocked.
It's basically a garbage leftover of
milk products.
Oh, you got some dates there.
Oh, mashallah. Mashallah. That's it.
Yes. So, so um
so yeah, I will have some uh snacks, but
when I was heavily training and fasting,
man, it was just sometimes it was too
heavy to fast. So I would I would have
two meals and my first meal between the
sessions meal would be something
rehydrating
uh rejuvenating. You put electrolytes in
there.
Yes. Putting back electrolytes. I would
eat a lot of watermelon and melons.
Um I would make my own um my own
electrolyte drinks with honey
uh salt.
I would mix uh that properly in warm
water. Put it in the refrigerator. keep
it there and uh drink it. I would eat a
lot of cucumbers, kiwi, pomegranates,
mango. It's basically
hydration,
excuse me.
Yes. Foods that would be easily digested
to me and would carry a good amount of
building blocks that I need for the
second session. And evening time, I
would come home, I would have my full
meals.
What would that be?
Uh, interestingly, I would uh I'm very
boring. When I when I used to come uh to
my fight camp meals, it was always the
same meal
really at night. Yes. It was always
buckwheat mixed with dates. Um
uh feta cheese, kefir,
either lamb, turkey or fish, sometimes
chicken or beef sometimes. But majority
of my diet was lamb, turkey or fish.
um
fermented uh vegetables such as pickles,
fermented uh cabbage
for the salt for the uh
No, you you need um um the bacteria.
Oh, okay.
Uh yeah, for the gut probiotic.
Yes, probiotics. The bacteria.
Uh I would have that. Um and I would
make um I would make my own uh sweets.
Really?
Keto sweets. Yes. Yes. I would make my
own keto sweets or if I have somebody
uh who was with me, they would make it
for me at that time.
So, um yeah, that was pretty much if
nothing if I'm not forgetting anything
that's Oh, I used to add butter to my um
to my buckwheat and every time I would
get strict with it. my weight would just
be going down and I would be eating when
I used to be just wow funny just today I
was talking about this to two of my um
clients that I have over here they just
finished private session with me and um
they did semi-private they did together
a session and when they finished we were
talking about the calories and stuff and
I told them I said when I was competing
myself I was walking around um 78 79 kg
Mhm. Okay. And I was fighting at uh 70
kg.
I was consuming fight camps. I was
consuming up to 42 4,300 calories per
day.
Unbelievable.
Within one and a half meal, meaning
snacks plus one full meal.
M.
Yes.
Is that because of the amount of
trainings you did?
The amount of training.
How many trainings did you do?
I used to do either two or three
sessions per day.
In between I would be doing studying. I
would be doing uh drilling. I would
sometimes show up to the gym and um
watch videos and do like a shadow
wrestling and shadow boxing
visualizing the moves. So in total I
would I would spend up to six hours
physically involved in MMA and another
maybe two hours intellectually involved
meaning at home reading, listening,
watching. Did you have a syllabus that
you went through when you were doing the
intellectual stuff or was it a little
bit sporadic or was it based on notes or
was it based on
So, so it was different. I had different
phases sometime I'm I'm trying to be a
structural human being. I hate not
having things in structure and in order.
Okay.
However, sometimes due to my youthness,
due to uh unexpected changes in life, it
was hard to keep up to spec specific
programs and systems. So there would be
times when I'm random back and forth. So
today I do this, tomorrow I do that. But
never deviating from the action plan.
I have a general action plan. You
dedicate this much to this, this much to
that to that. But within that action,
the colors, the taste could be vary
depending of the day, depending of how I
feel. And then one thing I used to allow
myself
there would be days when I would receive
a very powerful internal signal
as today is not the day and I would
literally sleep. I would I would sleep
the whole day.
Yeah. I would have those days or or I
would just go ahead and go hike whole
day. Don't show up to practice. Don't
diet. Eat eat cheese.
Your body you have to listen to your
body sometimes.
I used to have this. I used to have this
depending of the training camp how it
goes either once a week or once every
two 3 weeks.
Yeah. Sometimes if the if that's my body
is beat up and I start having it once a
week days like this I knew oh I got
to pull back my training is too too much
you can get sick get immune system goes
down
when I when I would have this day where
I don't want to talk to anybody my body
doesn't want to I don't want to do
anything about fighting I would I want
to eat Dunkin Donuts I never said no to
myself
and you know that supports the findings
of Roy Bam in that book that I told you
because he said that sometimes in order
to your willpower. In fact, this the
study he gave was people who ate like
chocolates and stuff and then were told
to do a difficult activities, they did
better than the ones who did
course. Of course, it's called it's
called balance and our religion revolves
around balance.
Yeah.
You know you nothing extreme is accepted
in our religion.
Nothing extreme is supported in our
religion. Even though unfortunately in
the 21st century our our religion is
presented to the public as something
extreme, as something very um spicy, as
something very edgy.
In reality, our faith, our religion is
the smoothest, is the most flexible,
it's the most adaptable, it's the most
balanced way of living life,
you know. It's it's yes it has certain
defined lines of what is h and what is
battle but yet even within those lines
there is a way of adapting not to break
you know so
I mean that's what attracted Andrew Tate
to it when he became Muslim you you know
Andrew Tate is famous influencer
and um you know some time ago now he was
saying you know strict lines and stuff
he was attracted to it and that's why he
became a Muslim What do you think of
Andrew Tate's fighting career? Did you
watch any of his fights?
I don't think of this guy. I don't like
this guy.
Really? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I I have
Oh, you you two have something in
common.
Yeah. I have I have I have u I have he
has never done anything against me nor
against anybody who I know.
Is just uh there is an aura, there is a
way of a speech, there is a way of
appearance that character has. And again
character
because I there is stuff I know of in a
real life and him in a avatar life.
Okay. So the avatar that he presents
um doesn't seem too attractive and
appealing to my eyes. I do not know how
his real self is but the avatar that he
shows to us
is not of my likings.
Yeah. Yeah.
What do you think of his fighting
career? Have you seen his
I never I never really researched of his
fighting career. I've never seen his
fighting. I I have heard he fought,
but um I I was never tempted to even
look into him
after I've seen him once or twice after
his videos because at one point his
videos were everywhere, you know. You
close your eyes, you see his videos, you
know. uh his team did an amazing job in
getting him out there and
I have spoken to several people of his
team of his uh social media team who
has developed that avatar and when they
were telling me certain strategies they
used I was fascinated I said that's
genius
that's genius how they promoted him how
they put his name out there how they
have trained him and stuff like that so
it it was incredible
okay um
if I take my likings and my opinions out
what he has achieved is incredible. It's
genius how he has done it.
However, for me to ever research him or
actually sit down and listen to his
lectures to even to get to know him.
Maybe if I get to know him, I'm going to
like him. I have no idea.
But um I just never had the interest to
do so.
You you were talking about food and and
nutrition. I found that very
fascinating. But there's another
question I had as an add-on to that one.
It was relating to um strength and
conditioning. Um in terms of cardio, are
you a believer of like long jogging or
Yes, long jogging is healthy if it's
done correctly. Um
a believer of lo long jogging outside.
Yeah. If there's an ability for you, if
the area where you live allows you to do
the activity of the long running
outside, please at least once a week do
it regardless you're athlete or you're
not athlete. It's super healthy. Super
healthy
mentally, spiritually, physically, it's
good for you to do it.
It's healthy. Running in general, if
it's done correctly, it's super healthy.
It's one of the most organic physical
activities for a human being.
The healthiest way of running is
sprinting.
The problem with that, the paradox with
that is sprinting can be the most
injuring way of running too.
Yeah.
Therefore, if you are not well prepared,
if you if you weren't conditioned to
sprint,
it's very dangerous to do so.
To substitute sprinting or to add to
sprinting is uphill incline running.
you rather do shorter time incline high
pace than doing long time uh distance
running.
The amount of health benefits you're
going to get is higher physically. The
amount of motor skill engagement will be
higher and more intense. the amount of
calories you'll burn in three minutes of
incline average pace running versus 30
minutes of flat surface average pace
running is the difference is enormous
what would be a cardio program that
you'd have for your fighters for example
what would you ask them to do outside of
the trainings
outside of the training
I leave for my fighters about 20 off of
their weekly training about 20% of their
training I leave for them to do athletic
performance enhance and training as a
bonus meaning like you gaining your
cardio your strength your flexibility
now via external tools not via fighting
okay I don't give more than that some
20%
20% no more than that so out of 10
sessions maybe two or one session I will
leave it to them uh uh to do uh to do
these things okay and when they do it Um
I have a general approach to it as well
as per person approach. Some people need
more speed and coordination. Some people
need more
cardio. Some people need this and that.
So each for each their own. Okay. But in
general I I have for example all my
fighters have to do 50 plus pull-ups.
Okay.
All my fighters in one minute. 50 plus
pull-ups in one minute.
If they're heavy like myself, you know,
I a reducer. Yeah. 50 is the average
number to the people up to 90 kg. Past
90 kg numbers are reduced.
Yeah, have to be reduced to it.
Yes. Uh next one. Next one is 100
push-ups in 60 seconds.
That's that's really hard.
I mean it's hard for those who don't do
it. Everything is hard.
You reduce the numbers again for the big
guys.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Also heavy weights
numbers are reduced.
Okay.
Uh one mile or 1.6 6 kilometer.
Mhm.
Needs to be done under 6 minutes.
No problem.
It's hard for a big guy though, isn't
it?
Uh I have heavyweights who I've I've
seen heavyweight wrestlers doing it.
Yeah.
You know, it's such an average number.
I've seen guys I've seen guys doing um
under 530.
Really? I trained a girl in United
States
because um I invested tremendous amount
of uh time attaining uh information of u
athletic performance enhancement
training.
Yeah.
For all athletes. Okay. I studied uh
that so much in New Jersey. And I was
training this girl. She was a
professional tennis player. Um why I'm
saying professional? She was dedicated
prof uh tennis player but she was only
16 years old.
Okay. But her parents, it was investing
so much for her to become big in in that
sport.
In our athletic performance enhancing
training,
after her warm-up, she was doing three
rounds of one mile run. And each one she
was averaging between 528 to 540
really
per mile. Mhm.
And she would rest 5 minutes in between,
jump for round two, do the same numbers,
jump round three, do the same run
numbers, and then we start our training.
Is that a good thing?
Is that a good program?
That's an amazing program. If
if a fighter can do that, if if a
if up to a middle weights,
guys can do two rounds at least of one
mile run, which is 1.6 6 km and finish
under 6 minutes with 5 minutes break in
between and then start their overall
strength training within within 42
within 42 sessions they won't recognize
their body
really
I promise you just by doing this alone
let's say let's cut all your extra
push-up keep doing the same push-ups
that you do keep doing the same lift and
just add
this protocol of running
1.6 6 km or 1 mile
two rounds
each one your your goal is to finish
under 6 minutes and you have 5 minutes
break in between and you do it again and
then you start the rest 42 sessions you
will not recognize your physique
do you know who I saw post something
about that Tyson Fury um and he's huge I
mean he's big as well
and he did have couple of he put down
his times and he had like one or two
that was below six minutes and he had
six or seven of them.
Thank you. You see,
so if you can do it and
I'm telling you again, I'm not telling
you what I like.
I'm telling you facts.
Yeah. Because to be honest, like 12
rounds of boxing is really hard. It's
course like a marathon.
So this is this is what USS scientists
has proven to us and the whole world
right now is trying to get their hands
on these books.
USA is doing very good job and having
their agents stealing these books. I
don't know how they do, but
Well, you're giving it to them for free
right now, isn't it?
My god,
the informants.
So, so, so, uh, they're trying to get
their hands on it, but USSR uh, Olympic
scientists, they did a tremendous amount
of, uh, work to develop these programs
until this day, whoever has these
programs, they using it very well.
So, this was part of the program.
Yes, this is part of that program. Yes.
Uh, so you try and do 1.6 six kilometers
or one mile and you try and do that
below 6 minutes and you have a a break
and then you do it again.
Correct.
And if you can do it two or three times
within 40 days, you'll be amazing.
Like I said, a 16 years old tennis
player girl,
a client of mine back in the days, she
was able to do it. So this is real.
Yeah.
If you're a man fighter and you're not
able to do this, we got a problem.
And is that in addition to hit training
and stuff? Some people go 10 seconds on,
10 seconds off.
It's addition. It's addition to all
that. M
addition to that and and I can say so
much about the hit training too but u
what do you think of that
it's yes and no
really
yes yes yes it's yes and no there they
are specific criteria must be in place
in order for hit training to be correct
and majority of people who's doing hit
they're not
really
valuing these criteria
yes yes it's so much it's it's such a
it's such a subject I can have a whole
seminar on this course you know I'm
saving a lot of my secrets.
You've got to if someone wants to access
your work, where would they go
right now? The simplest way to get their
hands on my lectures, on my videos,
talking about strength and conditioning,
talking about diet, talking about
wrestling for MMA, talking about MMA in
general, mindset. All this is right now
in my Instagram subscription.
Okay. What is your handle? Do do you
know?
Yes. Yes. Ozy MMA Instagram. They go
there, they open uh I share a lot of
reels and information for public for
they can subscribe on that
but if they subscribe this is when they
get their hands on exclusive content on
my library.
So be information that we're talking
about today but much more detailed.
Correct. Correct. All of it it's there.
I'm I'm making posts every week,
sometimes twice per week. And right now
I have I have almost almost 200 hours of
footage in that library. Yes. Yes.
And that's on Instagram.
That's on Instagram. Yes. Yes.
Well, it makes it easier for everyone,
doesn't it?
Oh, that's what I did. A good coach is
making easy for his students to attain
the information, but to do it.
It's structured, doesn't it?
It Yes. It's uh it's structured in a way
where um
majority of the videos as you scroll
through you see it's MMA MMA MMA diet
MMA MMA MMA strength and conditioning.
Yes. As you scroll through it, it's
relatively simple. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Everything is there. Everything is
there.
I was going to ask you about recovery,
but maybe I'll do this off uh off
camera. But it's been a pleasure having
you today.
Well, Muhammad, I I felt like home.
Thank you so much.
Honestly, we got the dates. We can eat
those. Now we got the base. Yes. Yes.
Life is finished.
We'll get some prop food as well
actually.
Awesome. Awesome. Awesome.
Thank you for that. And people are
definitely going to be subscribing to
your um to your subscriptions. I think
it's an investment. Look, I mean people
buy all kinds of things,
you know. People buy Netflix, people buy
sandwich. People buy like, you know,
chocolates, cakes, whatever for that
kind of price. You pay £5,10, I don't
know how much it cost a subscription,
but then something like that. And then
you, you know, you you've got an access
to a library
which can actually transform your life.
Like,
man, you said it so good. I just don't
see why any young, especially a young
man watching this wouldn't want to go on
Aussie MMA and subscribe.
Thank you. Thank you. Listen, listen.
You guys you guys are amazing. I'm uh
I'm very pleased and honored to hear all
these wonderful and kind um comments you
guys made on my work. I'm so happy we
met through very good people Afy Adam
these guys they organized these seminars
here in UK I had a so much joy sharing
information with all who attended the
seminar and it was fun to look into the
eyes of these youngsters they were all
so happy to be there yes yes yes it made
it made me want to do even more me want
to show even more I was very excited I
was sweating I was like moving and
action and I really love the end passion
for it. That's that's what counts, I
think.
Thank you. Thank you. And now sitting
here and adding on to that seminar that
you attended yourself.
And us now sitting here talking, I think
um
when good people meet good people, good
things happen. Hopefully, we're among
those good people.
Thank you so much.
With that,
hey, you are you wasting your time on
social media again? Your brothers and
sisters in Islam net from Norway are
establishing a masid, a da center.
Establishing a masid to convey the
message of Islam is one of the best
deeds a Muslim can do. There's a huge
need for it in Norway. You know this and
I know this. So that makes the reward
even greater. So give generously and
Allahawel will give you even more.